# XJS
**XJS** is a small JavaScript library (sort of) which contains a collection of small methods to speed up your code writing, especially focusing on dealing with `localStorage`, `sessionStorage` and date / time. It has **no dependencies**.

# WHY
To speed up and simplify your code writing, especially if your project makes a heavy use of `localStorage`. Isn't it just so much more convenient and faster to type `x.ls` than `localStorage.setItem`? Or to simply type `x.gt()` than `(new Date).getTime()`? Or `x.cl(var)` than `console.log(var)`? Once you get used to it, all of it becomes indispensable part of your projects. The purpose and aim of making this library was to make repetitive or frequently used code blocks much easier and faster to type. That is why the name 'X', because this letter is easily accessible.

# TIPS
* **DO NOT** use the variable name `x` anywhere else in your code, even inside loops. This might not be necessary, but it is always better to be safe than be sorry.
* Almost all method names are made up of 2-3 letters, with the first letters of the functionality they do. Example: `x.ls` for `l`ocalStorage.`s`etItem,  `x.sg` for `s`essionStorage.`g`etItem, `x.gt` for `g`et`t`ime, `x.pi` for `p`arse`I`nteger, and so on. Once you get a hang of this, it really becomes very obvious and easy to memorize.

# Contents
1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [API](#api)
  1. [localStorage](#localstorage)
     1. `ls()`
     2. `lg()`
     3. `jls()`
     4. `jlg()`
     5. `lr()`
     6. `lc()`
     7. `lss()`
     8. `lclr()`
     9. `lex()`
     10. `lim()`
  2. [sessionStorage](#sessionstorage)
     1. `ss()`
     2. `sg()`
     3. `jss()`
     4. `jsg()`
     5. `sr()`
     6. `sc()`
     7. `sss()`
     8. `sclr()`
     9. `sex()`
     10. `sim()`
  3. [Common Date and Time Functions](#common-date-and-time-functions)
     1. `gm()`
     2. `gy()`
     3. `gdy()`
     4. `gdt()`
     5. `gt()`
     6. `hms()`
     7. `mms()`
  3. [Other Handy Tools](#other-handy-tools)
     1. `pi()`
     2. `pf()`
     3. `sp()`
     4. `ri()`
     5. `jp()`
     6. `js()`
     7. `cl()`
3. [Contributing](#contributing)
4. [License](#license)


# Installation
Include a copy of `x.min.js` into your project and put this code line in your document `head`. Make sure you enter the correct path to the `x.min.js` file.

```javascript
<script type="text/javascript" src="x.min.js"></script>
```
# API
## localStorage

**`ls()`**

Set an item in `localStorage`.

```javascript
x.ls(key, value);
```

**`lg()`**

Get an item from `localStorage`.

```javascript
x.lg(key);
```

**`jls()`**

Set an item in `localStorage` with `JSON stringify`.

```javascript
x.jls(key, value);
```

**`jlg()`**

Get an item from `localStorage` with `JSON parse`.

```javascript
x.jlg(key);
```

**`lr()`**

Remove an item from `localStorage`.

```javascript
x.lr(key);
```

**`lc()`**

Check if an item exists in `localStorage`. Returns `true` or `false`.

```javascript
x.lc(key);
```

**`lss()`**

Calculate the total size of `localStorage`. Returns size in KB as a `string`. *Example: 108 KB*

```javascript
x.lss();
```

**`lclr()`**

Clear entire `localStorage`.

```javascript
x.lclr();
```

**`lex()`**

Export entire `localStorage` as a JSON string. Returns a string.

```javascript
x.lex();
```

**`lim()`**

Import data to `localStorage` from a JSON string generated by the **`lex()`** method (above).

```javascript
x.lim(string);
```


## sessionStorage

**`ss()`**

Set an item in `sessionStorage`.

```javascript
x.ss(key, value);
```

**`sg()`**

Get an item from `sessionStorage`.

```javascript
x.sg(key);
```

**`jss()`**

Set an item in `sessionStorage` with `JSON stringify`.

```javascript
x.jss(key, value);
```

**`jsg()`**

Get an item from `sessionStorage` with `JSON parse`.

```javascript
x.jsg(key);
```

**`sr()`**

Remove an item from `sessionStorage`.

```javascript
x.sr(key);
```

**`sc()`**

Check if an item exists in `sessionStorage`. Returns `true` or `false`.

```javascript
x.sc(key);
```

**`sss()`**

Calculate the total size of `sessionStorage`. Returns size in KB as a `string`. *Example: 50 KB*

```javascript
x.sss();
```

**`sclr()`**

Clear entire `sessionStorage`.

```javascript
x.sclr();
```

**`sex()`**

Export entire `sessionStorage` as a JSON string. Returns a string.

```javascript
x.sex();
```

**`sim()`**

Import data to `sessionStorage` from a JSON string generated by the **`sex()`** method (above).

```javascript
x.sim(string);
```


## Common Date and Time Functions

**`gm()`**

Get current month. Returns an integer corresponding to current month in zero-based index form.

```javascript
x.gm();
```
> 0 = January, 1 = February, ...and so on till... 11 = December

**`gy()`**

Get current year. Returns an integer equal to current year.

```javascript
x.gy();
```
> 2017, 2018, etc.

**`gdy()`**

Get current day of the week. Returns an integer corresponding to current day of the week in zero-based index form.

```javascript
x.gdy();
```
> 0 = Sunday, 1 = Monday, ...and so on till... 6 = Saturday

**`gdt()`**

Get current date. Returns an integer equal to current date.

```javascript
x.gdt();
```
> 1, 2, 3.... 31, etc.

**`gt()`**

Get current time in `ms` (milliseconds). Returns an integer equal to the current UNIX time.

```javascript
x.gt();
```
> 1545565982379

**`hms()`**

Convert hours into milliseconds.

```javascript
x.hms(hours);
```
**`mms()`**

Convert minutes into milliseconds.

```javascript
x.mms(hours);
```


## Other Handy Tools

**`pi()`**

Parse integer. Can be useful when converting a string number to integer.

```javascript
x.pi(val);
```

**`pf()`**

Parse float. Can be useful when converting a string decimal to float.

```javascript
x.pf(val);
```

**`sp()`**

Split string. Arguments: `[string, char(optional), index(optional)]`.
- if only `string` argument is given, returns an `array` consisting of all characters of the string.
- if `index` is given, returns the substring / character at that index after split operation is done.
- if `index` is not given, returns an array with all substrings / characters after splitting at the character provided.

```javascript
x.sp(val);
```
> `x.sp('hello world!', ' ', [0])` returns `'hello'`.

> `x.sp('hello world!', ' ')` returns `['hello', 'world!']`.

> `x.sp('hello world!')` returns `['h','e','l','l','o',' ','w','o','r','l','d','!']`.

**`ri()`**

Generate a random integer between two specified integers (inclusive of both).

```javascript
x.ri(min, max);
```

**`jp()`**

`JSON parse` the passed value / argument.

```javascript
x.jp(val);
```

**`js()`**

`JSON stringify` the passed value / argument.

```javascript
x.js(val);
```

**`cl()`**

Console log.

```javascript
x.cl(val);
```
> `x.cl('hello!')` outputs 'hello!' in the console.

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change. Before adding any method, ask yourself:
* Is it really necessary?
* Will it be used often by a coder?
* Does it provide a big advantage over the original way?
* Does it actually takes away some pain from writing heavy code?

Keep in mind:
* Make a method name precise and no more than 4 characters long.
* Give proper but brief explanation about it in the documentation. Give an example if necessary.
* Follow the format above.
* Make **absolutely** sure that your addition has no dependency.
* Size of this library shouldn't be more than ~20KB (after minification).

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## License
/* 
MIT License

Copyright 2018 Devashish Bahri (@tranclix)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
*/

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)


